---
layout: post
title: Cat shelters
categories: blog
---

## Cat shelters

In the summer of 2016, Ellie and I was in searching of a cat into our family. Initially we would like to have a dog cause Ellie loves dog and she had dogs during her whole childhood. She also liked to divide people into two general groups --- dog person and cat person. Dog person is outgoing and always cares about others. They want everyone to be happy. On the other hand, cat person is calm and icy. Ellie thinks that she and I are both dog person, therefore we were thinking about to have a dog. However, we are both busy all the time cannot guarantee to take the dog out everyday. We knew we want a pet, but dog was not a option. We might be get one when we finish graduate school, but not now. So we started to find alternatives. We had fishes, but unfortunately they died after two weeks. I had to admit that we were very sad, but we had done everything we can do to prevent that from happening. Fishes are just too vulnerable. We cannot suffer from this again so we gave up and gave the fish tank and food away. Then we started to think that if we can have a dog, might be we can adopt a cat.

Cats are independent and low maintenance. We don't need to walk a cat, and all we need to do are dropping food and scoop feces. Then we started to find cats online. We searched the website of each shelter, and tried to find out the personality of each cat based on a few words in the description. We want a sweet and friendly cat. After a long search, we decided to visit a cat named Cali in shelter near Winsor. She is a long hair and calico cat. Very beautiful.

That was the first time we visit a shelter. Ellie tried to pet a cat that laid in front of the door, but the cat was not friendly and Ellie got scratch. For me, I had not ever have a pet before so that I were so afraid of petting cats. I was very cautious. Finally we met Cali, there were a other man who was also interested in Cali and Cali was out and played with him. We petted Cali and she was very playful. We also look around to see other cats. The shelter was very crowed. The cages are piled up and cats have to take in turn to go out. It is a very stressful environment for cats. And we witnessed a disaster. All of a sudden, cats started fighting with each other. The house are full of hissings and roars. We saw Cali raged and run away to fight other cats sitting in the cages. It took a while for the stuff to stop the fights. I was shock and didn't expect it to happen. We submitted the adopting application and the owner of the shelter asked us a few questions and left. For the following week, we checked email several times a day to see if we get Cali. Then we heard back from the shelter and they said they cannot give Cali to us because we are still students and lots of things could happen so that there is possibility that we surrender the cat. I totally understand their concerns. But we are responsible people and we are sure that we can provide 100 times better environment for Cali than it in the shelter.

We didn't give up. We gave another visit to the shelter in Ashford. The shelter was inside a farm. When we go inside of the shelter, we are amazed. It was so big that each cat has its own couch even room. This shelter is way better than the one we visited before. In there we met Sprinkle. Sprinkle is a very special cat. She will follow you around even though you are a totally stranger. We didn't know a cat can be this friendly until we met her. We liked her very much and wanted to adopt her. The thing we afraid at that time was we didn't know if we can provide Sprinkle a better home than the shelter. We only have 1b apartment, but Sprinkle owned her own room here. Anyway, we sent the application to the owner. After a long wait, unfortunately we got deny again for the same reason. Until then we realized that the we might not be able about to get a cat from the shelter because of our status. I think that is unfair for us, we would never surrender our pets but they have a point.
